it's 4:00 a.m. and the old city
Alleyways are deserted we follow the
faint scent of an ancient recipe one
that we're told cannot be mastered
anywhere else but in this holy city just
below ground a dance-like rhythm the
dough goes into the 300-year-old oven
built into these ancient walls and fired
by Olive Wood grown from this conflicted
land here we have a secret to the C it
just doesn't work outside of the old
city of Jerusalem many have tried they
took the water the flour all the right
ingredients even the sesame seeds and
sugar but it's never the same not in
ramala nowhere it's an age-old tradition
in Ever Changing Times it's comfort food
it's continuity it's identity but for
the hundreds of years that this ritual
has taken place here and for all the
conflict intentions that these old city
wolves have seen everyone here tells us
that these times are the worst ever the
war in Gaza is on everyone's mind but
hamas's attack on October the 7th has
had an impact here too many tell us they
don't dare travel through Israel anymore
Israelis and Palestinians have never
been more divided or suspicious of each
other than
now you're walking and all the Israelis
around you are armed and they look at
you as if you're a threat any movement
you make can give them an excuse to kill
you business here is terrible too there
are far fewer Palestinians and tourists
have all but
[Music]
disappeared a familiar call A Familiar
Taste a childhood memory there is
comfort in a tradition that hasn't
changed in centuries even if the world
around them constantly
does we make it with our hands we bake
it ourselves using wood in other places
they use machines and electricity they
just press a button the work we do here
we learned from our grandfathers and
will continue to do it just like they
did the commitment to keep a much loved
tradition alive one that is intertwined
with this Holy City Jerusalem cak
elicits emotion from those we talk to no
other version comes close it apparently
doesn't have that special ancient and
holy blessing Stephanie deer aljazera in
the old city of occupied East Jerusalem
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jaaz